---
title: General Questions
layout: layouts/page.njk
permalink: /questions/general-questions/index.html
---

* What did you learn yesterday/this week?

* What excites or interests you about coding?
  - putting ideas into reality
  - technology is always changing, exciting to learn new tech

* What is a recent technical challenge you experienced and how did you solve it?
  - NearMiss

* When building a new web site or maintaining one, can you explain some techniques you have used to increase performance?
  - backend
  - front end

* Can you describe some SEO best practices or techniques you have used lately?
  - main keywords early on in content
  - avoid duplicate content across your website
  - high-quality title tag
  - optimize loading speed
    - text compression
    - minimizing assets/images
    - lazy loading
    - CDN
  - optmize images (good file names and alt text)
  - internal linking & backlinks

* Can you explain any common techniques or recent issues solved in regards to front-end security?
  - XSS
    - filter input on arrival
    - use appropriate response headers
  - DDOS
    - Using Captcha or Google's reCaptcha to distinguish humans from bots
  - Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
    - Same Origin Policy (SOP) addresses this, if request is made on the browser, like an image for example then..
    - CSRF Token generated by server and sent to client
    - make sure token is in the header of each request

* What actions have you personally taken on recent projects to increase maintainability of your code?
  - Linter
  - Comments
  - less code as possible
  - modularity
  - meaningful variable names

* Talk about your preferred development environment.
  - Mac OS
  - Visual Studio
  - Git for version control
  - JavaScript
  - Node.js & npm

* Which version control systems are you familiar with?
  - Git
    - faster to commit
    - available offline
    - no more single point of failure

* Can you describe your workflow when you create a web page?
  1. Determine the purpose of this web page. What is it trying to solve?
  2. How do I want it to be like?
  3. What tools/technologies would be helpful for this?
  4. Design
  5. Review progress so far, see if looking good so far
  6. Code
  7. Review and Update
  8. Once finished, deploy
  9. Ask friends to review/test

* If you have 5 different stylesheets, how would you best integrate them into the site?
  - combine to one external style sheet
  - CSS Modules separated by category

* Can you describe the difference between progressive enhancement and graceful degradation?
  - progressive enhancement is building a  a baseline of the features supported by all browsers and then more advanced features are added like layers so the web page takes advantage of the funcitonality newer browsers have to offer.
  - graceful degration is the opposite, meaning you build an application with a baseline of full functionality available in modern browsers and then taking the layers off to ensure it works with older browsers. Basically, you downgrade the enhanced veersion.

* How would you optimize a website's assets/resources?
  - minify file sizes
  - text and image compression
  - serve images via a CDN to reduce travel time to visitor
  - Database can be stored on a separate server as to not use the resources of the website server
  -

* How many resources will a browser download from a given domain at a time?
  - Modern web browsers support on average 6 concurrent downloads per domain.
  * What are the exceptions?
    - Using 2-4 domains that also point to the same IP address can be optimal if there are more resources to download but more than that can result in degraded performance. This is called Domain Sharding.

* Name 3 ways to decrease page load (perceived or actual load time).
  - compress JS and CSS files by combining and minifying them
  - use a CDN to serve static files
  - choose a better hosting option (shared vs VPS vs Dedicated)
  - reduce image sizes
  - allow browser caching

* If you jumped on a project and they used tabs and you used spaces, what would you do?
  - I would ask why they use spaces over tabs, and if it is a better idea to either follow or do what I'm most comfortable with.

* Describe how you would create a simple slideshow page.
  1. Determine what kind of slideshow is needed
  2. I'd store the images in an array
  3. If using React, I'd create a component to display an image at a given index
  4. add left and right buttons to toggle between images based on the order of the array
  5. hold state of all the images and the current image being displayed

* If you could master one technology this year, what would it be?
   - TypeScript

* Explain the importance of standards and standards bodies.
  - With the use of web standards web designers, developers, and engineers will be able to achieve a more stable web despite the ongoing introduction of new hardware and software. Standards allow backward compatibility and validation since they are written to be compliant with older browser versions.
  - On the web, standards are discussed and decided upon in groups of concerned people and organizations called standard bodies. Standards bodies publish documents whcih describe various standards across their respective technologies.

* What is Flash of Unstyled Content? How do you avoid FOUC?
  - It's when a page loads and there is a small bit of time when the page has no styling
  - The most natural solution is using a link tag instead of the old standard of a style tag and importing the CSS file.
  - can also hide everything until everything is loaded

* Explain what ARIA and screenreaders are, and how to make a website accessible.
  - ARIA is shorthand for Accessible Rich Internet Applications. ARIA is a set of attributes you can add to HTML elements that define ways to make web content and applications accessible to users with disabilities who use assistive technologies (AT). When accessibility issues cannot be managed with native HTML, ARIA can help bridge those gaps.
  - A screenreader is a form of assistive technology that renders text and image content as speech. Screen readers are essential to people who are blind, illiterate, visually impaired, or have a learning disability.
  - Ways to make website more accessible other than ARIA/HTML:
    - keyboard-friendly
    - alt text to all images
    - Using headers to structure content correctly
    - Resizable texts for visually impaired
    - good labeling (ex. label for forms)

* Explain some of the pros and cons for CSS animations versus JavaScript animations.
  - CSS animations:
    - Pros: simpler, transitions, animations,
    - Cons: less control for developers
  - JS animations:
    - Pros: more control, better for more complex animations
    - Cons: more complex

* What does CORS stand for and what issue does it address?
  - Cross-Origin Resource Sharing is a HTTP-header based mechanism that allows a server to indicate any other origins (domain, scheme, or port) than its own from which a browser should permit loading of resources.
  - This is an addition made after the Same Origin Policy (SOP) was implemented to avoid CSRF (cross-site request forgery)
  - CORS allows servers to specify certain trusted 'origins' they are willing to permit requests from. Origins are defined as the combination of protocol (http or https), host (a domain like www.example.com or an IP address) and port. Browsers which implement the CORS policy will include a HTTP header called 'Origin' in requests made with AJAX.

* How did you handle a disagreement with your boss or your collaborator?
  1. PwC Q1 deadline
  2. Disagreement between me and senior
  3. Initiated conversation with senior to ask best way to approach getting things done
  4. Both learned how to prioritize and communicate better

* What resources do you use to learn about the latest in front end development and design?
  1. documentation
  2. google
  3. youtube
  4. friends
  - also use online courses such as frontend masters, udemy

* What skills are needed to be a good front-end developer?
  - JavaScript
  - HTML/CSS
  - Git
  - JS Frameworks and Libraries
  - Responsive Design
  - Testing/Debugging
  - CLI

* What role do you see yourself?
  - Front-End or Full-Stack Web Development

* Explain the difference between cookies, session storage, and local storage?
  - Cookies:
    - stores data that has to be sent back to the server with subsequent requests. Its expiration varies based on the type and duration can be set from either server or client side (normally from server)
    - cookies are primarily for server-side reading (can also be read on client-side), localStorage and sessionStorage can only be read on client-side.
    - size must be less than 4KB
    - cookies can be made secure by setting the httpOnly flag as true for that cookie. This prevents client-side access to that cookie.
  - Session Storage:
    - is only available for the duration of the browser session (and is deleted when the tab or window is closed) - it does, however, survive page reloads.
    - stores data only for a session, meaning that the data is stored until the browser or tab is closed
    - data is never transferred to the server
    - storage limit is larger than a cookie (at least 5 MB)
  - Local Storage:
    - If the data you are storing needs to be available on an ongoing basis then local storage is preferable to session storage - although both can be cleared by the user so don't rely on either for continuing existence of data.
    - stores data with no expiration date, and gets cleared only through JavaScript, or clearing the Browser cache/Locally Stored Data
    - Storage limit is the maximum amongst the three
